Is that a digital or a tape?
No, it's tape.
It's nice.
They're getting into digitals now.
They're very expensive.
They cost like $1,000, $12,000.
Maybe they've come down a little bit, but if you want to do radio work or something, then you've got to have the digital.
But they're exceedingly expensive.
They really are.
I mean, just for the little notes, you know, you keep in your pocket.
I'm going to check it out.
You get a half hour, 40 minutes worth of notes.
You're just fine.
But I take it home and I put it on the earphones and the fidelity is fine.
I have purchased... Is the wooden table going to bother?
No, not at all.
I have purchased, starting with a ewer,
tape reel-to-reel.
Every goddamn kind of tape machine you can buy, I don't think I've used 15 yards of the tape.
I got stuff I bought in Japan 25 years ago.
I can't work with tape.
I just work with my own notes.
That's the only thing I can really—I will have some of these interviews transcribed and go through them.
I just don't feel comfortable with it.
I can't get into the rhythm of an interview with it.
Let's talk about redemption, if we might, sir.
The predecessor to this.
Do you consider this a sequel, by the way?
Actually, it's a no-name.
Okay, because I wouldn't call it a sequel.
This is like that Miami defense, the no-name defense.
Right.
This is not a sequel, and it's not a prequel.
It was a view from the other side of the mirror.
Nice quote.
What happened was I was supposed to go to Germany to write a book on conditions in Germany, and I said everything I was predicting...
Contemporary conditions.
Yeah, happened, including the wall coming down.
And then I said, hey, man, I am not going to go there to chronicle the rebirth of Nazism.
And, you know, I just couldn't deal with those skinheads.
At my age, there's other things I'd rather do.
Mm-hmm.
So I had to come up with an idea real fast.
So you walk into the publisher's room and, you know.
When is this, though?
We're talking, well, this is about four or five years ago.
I would have thought this book's been worth.
You were working on this for a long time.
And I said, how about a sequel to Trinity?
Of course, their little years went up.
We're talking about a book that sold five million or so copies, right?
So...
What happened was I had to, you know, I didn't leave too many people alive at the end of Trinity.
Me and Shakespeare had this one thing in common.
We left a lot of dead people on the stage.
So I had to bring those people back to life and go into parts of their life that were not covered in Trinity.
In other words, Trinity was, the history came first, I would say, even though the hero was a staggering hero, this Conor Larkin.
But in this, it's really, I think, one step deeper as a writer in which the relationships between the family is more important than the
the history of the country.
And the other thing that I found out was that the place to end Trinity was a hot topic, a hot-button topic, even to a point where I wrote a phony ending to satisfy the editor, and I was just kidding with him.
in which Addie feels the kick of her unborn child as he goes off to the raid.
You're doing a movie script for that.
Yeah.
So I wanted to revisit the meaning of the 1916 rising, which gained importance to me since Trinity, since I wrote Trinity.
The event itself was bupkis.
It was nothing.
I mean, it was, in the context of the history of the century, the same as the Warsaw Ghetto.
In World War II, the Warsaw Ghetto rising was nothing besides Stalingrad and Pearl Harbor and V.E.
Day and the landing in Europe.
But the meaning of the event
You've got two of them in this century, is the 1916 Rising, which was the beginning of the end of colonialism, and the Warsaw Ghetto Rising, which both of them were suicide affairs chosen by the people who were trapped into the situation or believed in the situation.
They didn't go out to beat the British Empire.
They went out to, like yesterday, to get somebody's attention.
To make a statement.
And these were two statements for freedom, small people, that seems to be what this century has turned out to be.
And they have long outlived their volumes.
It's like the Boston Massacre.
I think they only shot six people.
Something like that.
In actual terms, I mean, there wasn't that much blood spilled, but we're talking about the resonance and the meaning and how it has resonated.
And this is what I wanted to revisit.
And this was, if you can pick a point when the British Empire started to really unravel, was that they didn't know how to handle it.
They're still growing just lately.
The Scottish are beating the drums now, the Scots.
Very fascinating, because they had to have the British markets to survive.
Now they're part of this European community with 300 or 400 million people, and they don't need the British.
And they got the oil, you know.
Yeah.
So, there is a revival.
I was just reading the Times this morning, a revival of Spanish National.
My wife told me that I— You know, the world is balkanized.
The whole world is balkanized.
Really?
Yeah, but they've been doing this for centuries over.
But there's only one good thing about the Soviet system is they kept these guys in check, at least.
I'm teasing.
Well, you know, there's more truth than fiction to that.
There is a side to it.
I mean, look what has happened to the Russian—will the real Russian people step forward?
I mean, this is a—
This is a pretty tough crowd.
I mean, you're talking about the mafia.
These guys don't take second fiddle to anybody, do they?
I mean, if you're a business man going to Russia, you better go with some bodyguards.
You better hire security.
Take care of you while you're there.
Yeah, you know, you don't live in a democracy.
You don't declare a democracy and suddenly it's there.
Look, Saddam Hussein got the popular vote, didn't he?
That's a democratic thing.
That's funny.
Ireland seems to resonate with you, I mean, especially when everybody knows you for Exodus.
Well, this was a...
I guess you've made your statement with Exodus, perhaps.
Well, you know, each one is a different statement, and because of Exodus, I have become a Jewish writer, which is fine with me.
I'm Jewish, and I'm a writer, so this is okay.
Good elements and bad, though.
Yeah, well, you know, I haven't gotten as good as Philip Roth yet, but... You talk about bringing characters back to life.
He's bawling a piece of leather in there.
He's still doing it.
Somebody had to do it?
Yeah.
Where is that?
I had a research entry.
Athro?
Well, it was Athro, but it was done over the top of one that had been done 20 years ago in the old-fashioned way.
And during the writing of this book here, you know, with this pushing out here, the whole thing went tilt.
I had two knees, both knees.
And what we're doing is pushing our backbone into our nerves.
We're bending our column in here.
And I knew I was in trouble when I started falling down.
I suspected something might be wrong.
It's a little wrong, too.
Are we talking about Exodus?
Yeah, well, that, of course, pins a label on me, but
most of my books have not been on Jewish themes.
You know, Battle Cry certainly wasn't.
It was about the Marine Corps.
I understand, but I remember going back 20 or so years when you came through for Scoot Jackson, a rabbi or somebody came up and said you said it for, I mean, you must run into this every day.
It's fine.
I mean, and I hear it from the Irish, too, in the most complimentary way.
There were about 2,000
kids, little boys by the name of Connor in this country now, named after Connor Larkin from Trinity.
Well, your dedication is to Connor and Rachel.
To my son.
And you have characters in here, Connor and Rachel.
Yeah, Connor and Rachel is my son and daughter with my young son and daughter.
They're 9 and 11 now.
You mindfully named characters.
Or is it that just coincidental?
Connor was deliberate, of course, from Connor and the Trinity.
Rachel said, Daddy, you've got to put a character in the book for me.
So I said, but there is a Rachel in Miller.
He says, yeah, but that was before I was born.
Oh, that's A-E-L here, too.
Yeah.
No, but see, that's our joke.
Because she liked to spell it R-A-C-H-E-L.
Uh-huh.
So I said, well, I'm going to put a Rachel in this book, but how should I spell it, dear?
She says, oh, well, spell it your way.
I picked up on that.
Well, that was an inside joke.
I read things like dedication.
I see that.
Let's pick up the thread again now.
You know, when you go back to Trinity and we talk about the title, of course, the title of the book,
if maybe this is what you were working by.
There are areas you can do here, I think.
I think I'm Irished out.
You know, there's a college movie coming.
That would be the next step in the Civil War and the Black and Tan Era, which is...
It's all very, very, very good.
But someone has written a novel about this in recent times, a very good novel, too.
Plannery.
Oh, yeah.
Very good.
I think he won a Pulitzer or something.
Yeah.
And I think... That's it.
I kind of think that's it.
How old are you now?
71.
You haven't lost your fastball at all.
Well, it's...
The vital parts are still working.
I seem to be able to get it together.
I must say that I feel that I'm putting the language together in a better way.
I still can tell a story which matters.
And I think my character relationships are better.
And, of course, all the women love this one, because I've got three, quote, liberated women.
Well, she was, if I may say so.
I won't say that in French, but I say that at my peril.
These were more or less a—my women, I've always had trouble with my women characters.
You mean in terms of development or in terms of their reception by other women?
In terms of their reception, and probably rightfully so.
So I decided to really put the whole shooting match in here.
That's something.
about the decision to use Winston so I won't give away the ending in any way but he sure becomes it was there you know I mean in constructing this book the first half of this book was constructive there's nothing ever been constructed like this I used about 25 or 30 chapters out of Trinity put them in verbatim
Then I went over them all and wrote them from a different point of view.
And they fit together pretty well.
But part of the thing that I had working for me, number one, we knew that Jeremy and Christopher had been killed at Gallipoli.
And you can't change?
All right, number two is we know that Liam went to
to New Zealand.
And number three, the Anzac Corps was the defining battle for the Australians and New Zealand of their history.
That made them a nation.
The Battle of Gallipoli was, of course, a tremendous tragedy.
So I had these three guys sitting here.
I had Caroline, who had access to everybody in the British Isles, and I had
the architect of Gallipoli.
So I said, what the hell?
I mean, why not use Winston Churchill?
And I used an awful lot of his own words.
This journal is supposed to be sealed until 2050.
Well, you'll never know.
Well, I mean, part of the research is that.
It's very accurate.
I don't know about... It's based on your knowledge.
A lot of the stuff is... He wrote a five-volume book called... It was World War I, the history of World War I. And Gallipoli, of course, from his viewpoint, he was an innocent bystander.
But it was the whole thing...
was a balls.
From concept through execution, it never had a goddamn chance.
And they based it, I think, partly on the fact that the Turks had just gotten whipped, had been whipped for the last 50 years, had been whipped by the Balkan countries, they'd been thrown out of North Africa, they had shrunk their empire all over
And it was totally corrupt, ready to collapse.
And then they made one.
Then the new Turks, the young Turks, that's where the expression came in, happened to a fellow by the name of, believe it or not, Ataturk.
Kamil Ataturk was a young officer in Gallipoli and later became sort of the father of modern Turkey.
But why they put those men in that location, they never advanced beyond the first day.
And, of course, they expected way too much of naval gunfire.
which shoots its flat trajectory, as you know.
That's very accurate, though.
Yeah, but it doesn't go into the ground.
We had the same situation on Tarawa.
We had battle wagons standing there point blank hitting that.
That's why when they brought the Missouri back and they brought the battleships back in the 60s and 70s, they said, these shells really aren't
appropriate for the function that we're putting them together for, you know.
So they had to come up with these new kinds of penetration shells and stuff like that.
Yeah, so it's, men defending a position can take an awful lot, take a hell of a meeting.
Chris, that's the British nature, though.
Well, there's another element in that they hadn't fought a modern war.
I mean, there is glory in battle in the British mindset.
Oh, march across that open field, you know, with your red coat on.
But they had not fought a modern war since Napoleon.
So it was a lot of 18th century or 19th century generals fighting a 20th century war.
Trying to, and the other big factor, of course, was the invention of the machine gun, which was the killer of the World War War.
Well, I must say, those scenes there are terrific.
How do you redo that?
I didn't.
This was all new.
Just the first half of the book, when I'm trying to get the book rolling together, is where I use parts of Trinity.
But I had to recreate Dilipoli.
But I mean, you did research and— Oh, sure.
I had a guy— You could visualize this thing, I guess.
No, no, no.
I had a guy in New Zealand.
Believe it or not, the brother of my researcher lived in New Zealand and was somewhat of a historian.
And he picked up things like the book written on the front lines, and it was published the year
I mean, it was by privates and sergeants and lieutenants.
And it had the commander's reports in there, the general's reports.
And the general's reports on a battle and what happened that day were just two entirely different things.
It was like all the lawyers watching the jurors come in from the OJ trial, and they said, oh.
They got their face down.
They're not looking at them.
The other guy gave them a power.
Every one of them had a different reading.
And you can watch the same, exact same battle.
Two men can watch the exact same battle and get a different version.
Look at two cars hitting each other in the street.
There's always going to be two stories there.
So they had a way of sending in a report that made it seem like this was our situation, and we did this and this and this, and that was the best we could do.
Our casualties were a little heavy, but it was worth it because we showed them that we weren't scared of them or something like that.
So it was what it gave me a chance to do.
When I wrote Battle Cry, I was restricted by my era.
You couldn't put a fuck in.
You couldn't...
We were very, very restricted in how far we could go.
And I didn't have the depth as a writer to understand the relationships.
The relationships were—they were all neat guys, but they were fairly surface.
In this, we really get into, I think, the Cairo scenes and the love of these guys for each other, particularly coming from all parts of the world.
And it was my reprise, so to speak, for Battle Cry, and I was very happy with the way to turn this up.
It's something you just can't express unless you experience it.
Well, you know, there's certain things that hit you, like,
arms and legs floating across the Mediterranean, washing up on the beaches.
And when they had to bury these guys and bayonet them to get the gas out of them, and then their guts exploded all over the place, it was... If anything ever showed the total godlessness and uselessness of war, the Turks at least were fighting on their own home territory, on their own home ground.
So they...
There was passion attached.
They had a reason for being there.
It's like the Russians in World War II.
Absolutely.
I'll never forget I got into a real heated discussion on my first trip to Russia when it was not nice to go, a long, long time ago.
And she says, but our boys fought so hard.
I said, I fought hard too, but I fought 3,000 miles away from home, 4,000 miles away from home.
So this doesn't take a hell of a lot of courage to defend your own village, you know, when your wife's going to get ready.
But when you're asked to march into gunfire, and she never thought of it that way.
We keep our asses down, Tony.
So the light of fire.
Yeah.
So the Turks had a reason for fighting, but...
Not only did the British have no reason for fighting—well, they had a political reason, but these poor Aussies and New Zealanders, these were just a bunch of farm boys looking for a good time in Paris, you know?
Yeah.
To develop the New Zealand angle, I thought it was terrific.
Contrasting Inwald Isles is really connected to the British Empire, too.
That turned out that way.
New Zealand is a very mystical, special place.
We're seeing a tremendous amount of talent come out of that country now.
For such a small country, population-wise.
Three, four million, and same size as Ireland.
Maybe it's a little smaller.
But in their motion picture, this Jane Campion is like a Shakespeare.
The one that did the piano?
Yeah, I know.
Oh, that woman.
Have you seen her?
Yeah, I think so.
See it again.
My kids watch it every once in a while, and I'm walking by, and I... Jesus.
No, no.
With her, you've got to sit and say, this is all I do this evening.
And I tried to see Angel at the table about four times, and then I said, look, if she wrote it, she's got to say something.
Tonight, I'm locking in.
Mm-hmm.
And it was one of these three-hour pictures.
And it looked like, the first part of it looked like it was shot by an NYU film class.
And then suddenly I'm nailed to the seat.
She's gotten it across.
She's come in to me.
This woman... Do you look at this for craft, by the way?
Or are you looking at it as... Oh, she's genius.
But I mean, being a writer of some note and familiar with... Well, she's in film.
She's dealing in film.
Yeah, but she's still in storytelling, isn't it?
Yeah, but she goes one step beyond Jesus.
You are inside the body of a deaf woman.
She puts you in there.
It's a genius.
Well, it's genius.
I call it Shakespearean.
I have not seen an equal to that film.
No kidding.
Yeah.
This is the piano.
The piano.
The ending sucks, but I think they needed it to get a world distribution on it, you know, happy ending and all that sort of thing.
But Jesus, when suddenly you are inside the bodies of the protagonist and the villain and the...
these pieces and could feel it the way... I mean, it was... Is it an original screenplay or is it from a novel?
Yeah, it's her.
Because I'd love to see it.
I'd love to read it from a novel to see how that... You see Angel at the Table, too, which is about a New Zealand writer.
And Bear, for the first hour and 15 minutes, you're going to throw up.
But then all of a sudden, she's nailed you.
She's got... She's unique talent.
Speaking of...
you know, talent and capturing the audience or the reader, do you have a sense of your readership, who you're writing these books for?
Well, you know, I hate to be modest at my age, but I have a big love affair with my readers.
I mean, I got a letter... Are you modest or immodest?
Well, it's bashful.
I mean, someone, an admiral, gave a copy of Redemption to the Commandant of the Marine Corps.
You know, a friend of a friend said, would you sign this to Carl Mundy?
And he wrote back a letter.
He says, yours is not only my hero, but he molded me.
Well, you know, that's the Commandant of the Marine Corps.
Yeah.
And then some little girl comes up to you, some little Russian girl comes up and said, I read through the night, you know, the illegal copy of Exodus.
And I was here five years ago, a fellow by the name of Volbovsky was in one of these hotels on a Sunday afternoon.
And he was the guy who went to the Gulag for several years for dealing...
in Exodus, in illegal translations.
And when you've had that kind of a profound influence, and when you hear the word, you're my hero, you've got to, you can't go to the mirror and look at yourself and hold the letter up.
I mean, because I have always felt that
There's a lot of shithouse luck, man.
I started out, I wasn't that talented, but I was very, very, very persistent.
And the things that I did, I did well.
God gave them to me.
I mean, you can't develop these things.
And I was certainly motivated by the Holocaust, if nothing else.
And...
I feel, you know, why me, Lord?
And I feel as long as I work hard and am faithful to this craft that I'll be able to keep it, you know?
But I'm just a keeper of something that I had nothing to do with...
Except that I was willing to take the pain.
I mean, and this you've got to understand, that this guarantees you a life of misery.
Of satisfaction, however, as well.
Satisfaction and misery, but when you're alone and you're hurting or your children are sick, all the readers in the world don't help you.
You know, a lonely person is a lonely person.
A hurt person is a hurt person.
And writers seem to, because they're dealing in human emotions all the time, are enormously involved in this.
And that's why we have this alcohol and suicide rate.
As I say, when Hemingway was my age, he was already dead for eight years.
I recently observed my, you know, Joe celebrate, but my 52nd birthday.
And my editor, Alan Peacock at home, called.
Not knowing it was my birthday, I told him, I said, what the hell do you sound so depressed for?
I said, you know who died on his 52nd birthday?
Oh, where do you read the obituary?
William Shakespeare.
I said, I'm just getting my first book published.
I was teasing, but yeah, you said you've outlived Hemingway by eight.
No, I didn't put it that way.
I said when Hemingway was my age, he was already dead eight years.
He died in 63.
He killed himself at 63.
And he seemed like such an old man, too, when he did it, didn't he?
A very old man, and the writing finally beat him.
But he didn't, he couldn't bring it anymore, as the pitching started.
His own mind, he couldn't.
Well, what happened, I think, is that he came face to face with his shallowness.
He was a man that never really took a stand on anything, except possibly in For Whom the Bells Tolled.
And he was consumed.
What I think got to him was what I call Marilyn Monroeism.
He was such a hot number when he wasn't writing that he had this image to live up to.
And when he realized how shallow that image was,
was he couldn't bear it.
And this is really what happened, I think, to Marilyn Monroe.
She was supposed to be the sexiest, hottest thing in the world, and she wasn't.
I mean, she was... I sure thought she was.
Well, that was... I did too, and I do today, but she was... But she was human.
She was too human and terribly frightened.
Yeah.
terribly frightened.
I have a special... And very, very unhappy.
Very unhappy.
Coming at a time when women were objects, whether you'd like to admit it or not.
Oh, we've given the gals a lot of shit for a long time, and their reaction is like any liberated people.
They're overreacting.
And as we're talking about the blacks and the black march, it
and whatever reaction they have is pretty much justified, except that their leaders are off the scale.
I'm wrong with that.
He sounds like Mark Furman.
He really does.
Sounds like a black Mark Furman.
I see these guys in these uniforms.
Don't those uniforms scare you with those funny hats?
Oh, well, that's the African heritage.
Look, we wear yarmulkes.
I mean, that's not... I don't...
They're desperate for something to hang their hat on.
But what emerges from this thing is, unfortunately for every Martin Luther King, there are ten Louis Faratans.
The hero in the neighborhood is not necessarily a Cuth character.
The kid with the nine millimeter.
Yeah, he's a role model.
Yeah.
Bill Moyers did a thing on New Jersey and Newark about five years ago, six years ago.
Yeah, remember that?
Oh, man, it was chilling.
I mean, the cycle of teenage pregnancies and the kid who knocked the gal up, it's got a half dozen gals who's knocked up, and goes around and collects their welfare checks.
And it's...
I read an interesting thing by a black guy.
He said, when I walk out in the street, I dress fairly nice.
He said, but before anybody meets me, they assume the following.
And he lists the whole thing down there.
I beat my wife.
I want dope.
I want white women.
I don't work for a living.
I'm not a family man.
All these things are assumed about me just by people looking at me.
Now, how do they carry that around without exploding?
And I remember also, personally, it comes to me, it's not an abstract thing.
I was raised by a left-wing family, and I remember the Scottsboro Boys in Alabama, you know, the 10, 12 boys who were, they were really...
had a rigged case against them, supposed to have raped this hooker.
I know the story, yeah.
And they've been getting this shit from us for 300 years.
Yeah, but, you know, I think the time reaches a point where... Yeah, but you can't say... You can't blame me.
Don't blame me.
No, I don't want to go to the Caribbean.
I went to Jamaica, and I said, buddy...
I didn't do this to you, you know.
All I did was come down here to swim.
Yeah, I mean, my parents came from Greece, for Christ's sake.
They weren't even here.
That's, you know, we understand that, but you got to understand their legacy.
And just as my legacy is the Holocaust.
I'll never get over the Holocaust, even though I was not personally involved in it.
But because I was a Jew, I mean, you know, when I see a guy like Farrakhan, this is really bothering me.
To claim there's a black holocaust, though, I think, is to belittle the real holocaust.
No, but no, no.
What I'm saying is that to hear gutter talk like this in America in front of a million men
is not comforting.
Well, if they go back to assuming... Actually, the Greeks did it, not the Jews.
Okay.
Okay, I didn't like the Turks when you were talking about the Turks.
Oh, yeah, well, that's a whole other story.
Briefly, what time is your next interview?
I think it's an 11.
Let's go until the phone number.
So get to the point, Nick.
Briefly, what I want is a sense of, because as you indicated, you... That's actually, go ahead.
I'm taking notes.
That's a telling, actually.
Go ahead.
But I'm taking notes.
So, you know, there was a foundation there.
And the same as when my outfit went to Saipan and they got butchered.
So I took that...
You remember, I guess it was Arthur Miller's Home of the Brave, where I was guilty because I was Jewish, and then I left my battalion, and, you know, the whole... So I wrote Battle Cry as an atonement.
Really?
And then I wrote Exodus as an atonement, because when the Holocaust, when I learned of the Holocaust.
So these were...
My way of paying my passage in life.
I had to get rid of these things that were distressing me, and thank God I could do it through my writing.
Did you ever expect the kind of response?
Actually, this is a modern classic.
Let's face it.
I knew what I had.
You did?
My only problem was how was I going to nail it, you know.
I didn't have the range as a writer, and this was, you know, a lot of the book wrote itself very, very fast.
But I certainly knew what I had, and going over to Israel at just the right moment.
was bringing my family over, getting trapped in the First Sinai campaign, and the whole thing.
Which gave it immediacy?
Well, there's a funny story about the immediacy.
The publisher would call up and say, you know, the Marines have landed in Lebanon.
This has happened.
That's happened.
I said, don't worry.
I said, whenever I write this book, the Jews will still be in trouble.
That's cute.
So, the immediacy is today, you know, over the Golan Heights.
The immediacy never stops with the Jewish people.
And it's recording.
I'll back it up anyway.
Once a reporter, always a reporter, I guess.
carry another tape, you know.
I just bought another machine, too, and I was such a rush.
I didn't want to be late.
My column runs today, so I've got tons of stuff here.
The reaction, though, really didn't surprise you.
And the fact that we're talking 30 years now.
Let me put it this way.
The reaction didn't surprise me, but I certainly was not prepared for it.
I was not equipped
to handle it.
But I did the best I could.
I couldn't say no to a Jewish organization, and I didn't realize how many there were.
That's great.
And then, of course, the events out of Exodus, which led to QV-7.
I was just reading a book.
Oh, no.
Middle 18 is where it was.
It was in the middle of 18.
Okay.
I'm sorry.
And the events
Well, 1918 was the second book, right, which came out of the ghetto, and then came QV7, which happened.
Which recounted those experiences.
Yeah, in Exodus.
Just one line out of Exodus was the year.
How the hell did the guy find it?
Somebody found it for him?
Oh, you know, it had a big sale in England.
This guy was, he had been knighted.
He had escaped extradition.
Why didn't he just keep his mouth shut?
Do you think people... He was goaded into it, and he was also... So it's really the way it's recounted in the book, then?
It's also... He didn't think he was guilty of anything.
You know, a lot of slavers sought God after a while, people in the slave trade, but he rationalized that he was at Auschwitz and what could I do?
And then...
bolstered with ten centuries of anti-Semitism, he justified the whole goddamn show.
Quite an experience, though.
And you had to show your manhood here, too, didn't you?
Because you could have caved in a little bit.
The offer was held out, apologize in open courts, and put in
pay him a nominal sum, you know, 500 bucks or something.
But to only what?
It was face.
Face, yeah.
And I... It did take some balls, I feel.
It took balls.
It was the most courageous thing I had ever done.
And I just saw my daughter as one of these women being operated on.
And I still, you know, I have these beautiful children, 9 and 11, and...
And every time I think of Rachel and Connor, not every time, but once a day, I think of the Germans and the Holocaust.
Your kids are 9 and 11?
That's great.
You've got a whole new generation.
Up to 49.
I've got them up to 49.
9, 11, up to 49.
My kids are 12 and 14.
They're just getting to be assholes now.
Girls can never do any wrong.
Oh, girls.
Yeah, they got daddy right where they want.
They got daddy right where they want.
Well, the daughter of mine is a new daughter.
A joy, right?
Yeah.
Bliss.
Yeah, bliss.
You know, I got tons of stuff.
I had clearance anyhow.
And I wasn't looking for top secret.
I was looking for...